A letter before leaving for battles
Permit me to observe: The previous Majesty started the mission of resuming Han Dynasty but was unfortunately deceased even before the half way to achieve. Today, the empire is still divided in three. Yizhou,as our home base, has been inflicted by wars thus still in poverty. Our very survival is threatened. 
Yet still the officails at court remain loyal to you and the soldiers throughout the realm are fighting without fear in defending the kingdom. These humble servants still owe the gratitude to the previous Emperor's honor toward them. All because of their gratitude, they wish to repay his kindness in service to you, your Majesty.   
This is the moment to extend your divine influence, to honor the memory of the previous emperor and strengthen the morale of your officers. It is not the time to listen to bad advice, or close your ears to the suggestions of loyal men.
The emperors of the Western Han chose their courtiers wisely, and their dynasty flourished. The emperors of the Eastern Han chose poorly, and they doomed the empire to ruin. Whenever the late Emperor discussed this problem with me, he lamented the failings of Emperors Huan and Ling.
I began as a common man, farming in my fields in Nanyang, doing what i could to survive in an age of chaos. I never had any interest in making a name for myself as a noble. The previous Emperor was not ashamed to visit my cottage and seek my advice. Grateful for his regards, I responded to his appeal and threw myself into his service. Now 21 years has passed.
The previous Emperor always appreciated my caution and, in his final days, entrusted me with his cause. Since that moment, I have been tormented day and night by the fear that i might let him down. That is why I crossed the Lu river at the height of summer, and entered the wastelands beyond.
Now the south has been subdued, and our forces are fully armed. I should lead our soldiers to conquer the northern heartland and attempt to remove the hateful traitors, restore thee house of Han, and return it to the former capital.
This is the way I mean to honor my debt to the previous Emperor and fulfill my duty to you. My only desire is to be permitted to drive out the traitors and restore the Han. If I should let you down, punish my offense and report it to the spirit of the late Emperor.
Your Majesty, consider your course of action carefully. Seek out good advice, and never forget the last words of the previous Emperor. I depart now on a long expedition, and i will be forever grateful if you heed my advice.
Blinded by my own tears, I know not what I write.
